So what is this right here, what do we have there?
Well as I said before, this is basically the font weight and
we also have the font style, I'll come back to that in a few seconds
but let's first focus onto the font weight.
Now what does this mean?
If we go back to our code and to our package info right here, then we added the font family Roboto
and below that, we could now add a font weight, like that and my IDE already shows you the options you
have,
you basically have numbers from 100 to 900, where a bigger number is equal to a bolder or fatter weight
of the font
and then you have bolder for example which basically means that it is bolder than the inherited font.
We already talked about inheritance throughout this course,
therefore I will not dive deeper into that,
what I will dive deeper into are these numbers because basically, the numbers as I said allow you to
specify the weight of your font and a number of 400 is the equivalent you could say to a normal
font weight,
so you could also write normal, right here like that,
this would be then a number of 400 and a number of 700 would be bold,
so the one down here.
Now what happens if we add something like 900 here for example? Well let's see, if we go back to our
page right here and reload it, you can see that nothing is happening and this is actually strange, right
because if we go back to Google fonts right here, you can see that 900,
this right here is actually defined.
The problem is that we only imported so far the regular font face, so this regular 400 font face.
So what we did is basically we have Roboto 400 right here,
that's our font family and the font weight,
so that's basically what we can see right here,
Roboto only. If we would like to use this 900 style I just showed you,
so this one,
then what you can do is we can click right here, now now hit the plus again, open this menu,
then you can see something interesting.
Previously we only had Roboto here,
right,
you remember when we just imported the regular 400 font face.
Now we added a second font face,
this 900 font face right here
and so we can see that this was the regular style, the 400 and now we also have to add the 900 style.
So what we can do now is, we can simply copy both of these and add them right here, we need a colon first
and then paste it, like that
and with that, we now told our code that we want to import the Roboto top font family with the 400 and
900 font face,
that's important.
The font faces,
let me close that,
these are the different font faces we have
and we have to import each font face separately to be able to retrieve the information for the corresponding
font face on our website.
What this simply means is that right now, if we go back to our packages file and we change it back to 900,
the font weight right here and now go back to the packages page and reload it,
now the font weight increased and that's the important concept you have to understand when working with
fonts. Each or most of the font families have different font faces applied and you have to import each
of these font faces to your website,
in the case of a web font, you can do this simply by adding it like this
as we saw it right here for Google fonts and with that, you are able to change the font weight,
that's important.
If you took a closer look, you also saw that different weight was not the only parameter that impacts
the font face,
we also see italic right here, that's the font style
and if we select for example thin 100 italic, right here and add this one, we can again see that this
is also right here at import, now added right there,
so 100i.
So let's add that right here in front of the 400,
right here at the Roboto font family,
so 100 i,
like that, add a comma and we could actually also get rid of that space right here, like that and save that
and now go to the packages file
and now important, change our font weight to our new 100 that we just imported, the 100 i and now add a font
style of italic,
this one right here.
Now let's see, if we minimize that and go back right here and reload the page, we can now see that we have
this thin 100 italic style.
Now an important information, if I would now go back to the shared.css file and remove the i after italic,
so just to make sure we have our thin 100 style right here. If I now would go back and reload the page,
you can see the styling changes but it only barely changes and
the reason for that is that the browser is able to kind of add an italic style to our website, even
though we didn't specify this individual font face
but as you could see, if I go back and add the i once again right here, we can see it changes indeed
the way the italic style is displayed.
However, I don't think we need that i right here so we can delete this
i after the 100,
we don't need the italic style
and I will also change this back to 900.
I'll keep that italic style,
so this default browser italic style, though for the moment we'll get rid of that soon in the next lectures.
So if I now reload,
this is the look we have at the moment on our website.
And with that, you saw that it's really important to import the right font face that you want to have on
your website, especially for the font weight but also for the italic style to make sure you really match
the style that was intended from the beginning.
And with that, we also saw that we have these different font faces and how we can use them in connection
with web fonts but there is one additional way how to import fonts to our website
and this is creating our own fonts.
Let's look at that in the next lecture.